                                                               Week 1 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                               

HACKING

'the gaining of unauthorized access to data in a system or computer.' 
Hackers employ a variety of techniques for hacking, including:
Vulnerability scanner: checks computers on networks for known weaknesses
Password cracking: the process of recovering passwords from data stored or transmitted by computer systems
Packet sniffer: applications that capture data packets in order to view data and passwords in transit over networks
Spoofing attack: involves websites which falsify data by mimicking legitimate sites, and they are therefore treated as trusted sites
by users or other programs
Root kit: represents a set of programs which work to subvert control of an operating system from legitimate operators
Trojan horse: serves as a back door in a computer system to allow an intruder to gain access to the system later
Viruses: self-replicating programs that spread by inserting copies of themselves into other executable code files or documents
Key loggers: tools designed to record every keystroke on the affected machine for later retrieval




''We make use of a service already existing without paying
for what could be dirt-cheap if it wasn't run by profiteering gluttons, and
you call us criminals.''

...

'' My crime is that of curiosity.''

...

''My crime is that of outsmarting you, something that you will never forgive me
for.''

-Quotes out of A Hacker's Manifesto: The conscience of a hacker


class Joana & Shailoh 

Inspection tool I chose: lighter
Purpose i chose it for: By burning fabric, u can smell and see which materials/fibers are used to create the fabric.
excercise:
The object is able to protect/to store something in, because of its hard material that is not- or barely- formable. Also because attached
to this hard part, there is a part to it that can be moved and has a structure on it for grip. It's not easy to move by adding light 
pressure. This can suggest that there may eventuallybe danger or something can be broken or come out of the object. It has a whole on top
, which also gives the impression of something coming out or going in of the tool. 

The object tells the user that there is something to warn you about, because of its system how to lighten the fire. It seems to be made 
for using it with your hands, this is suggested through its small siza/format and details. The object itself does not have an expiration
date, but the functionality of the tool does. Once the fuel is all used there's no purpose to the lighter anymore. It is not able to
be functional by itself, it needs help

reflection: I mainly looked and felt the shapes, materials and therefore structures of the object and through this looked at its
functionality.
I asked myself a couple of questions like; 
'what is its functionality by itself' 
'can it be used for different purposes'
'has the tool itself different purposes or ways of using it'
etc.
It is a tool to reach for a something bigger (a bigger purpose).

*switching objects*

tool: tweezer
purpose the person chose it for: getting threads through the sewing and locking machines.
It's a long object, made out of hard material, namely metal. There's a small pin between the two long ' sticks?'.
Even though it's a hard object, you are still able to move it, mostly towards each other. The pin in between the two parts, does not 
have any influence in the movement of the object, because there is a hole in one metal pin that the pin can get into. The object itself
does not create anything but pressure, and release pressure (a typical loop)


                                                                Week 2 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                               


1st excercise Yoana: 

theme: non human <> non human programming
example: sound
explanation: There are all parts in the air that are vibrating when someone speaks or an object makes a 'sound', those parts bump against 
each other, all the way to a human or another organism its anatomical hearing system, which then forms into the sound we hear. This is 
both a choreography created by the little parts in the air, as it is a choreography of for example lips moving together or two object 
clashing, which causes a reaction that gets interpreted as a sound.

theme: human <> human programming
example: menstruation cycle of a women and the birtcontrol pill 
explanation: the menstration is a natural system and choreography of the female body. It's a repetitive cyclus that contains out of
the same step at approximately the same time over and over again. This system can be intervined by the (birthcontrol) pill. Which breaks
the loop of the cyclus and fools the body into an unnatural way of menstruating.

theme: natural agency
example: high and low tide
explanation: Choreography with water created by the moon. 


second excercise Yoana:

object we chose: corset
is made to reshape the body. If we would intervine the corset by adding volumes in the unusual places, it would hack the purpose of
the garment. 
We also asked ourselves what would happen to the object if we would cut it. The fuctional details of the corset like the boning and the 
lace up with the string in the back could be used in a different way without using the fabric. It could be then used on or even in the 
body itself. Like inserting the lace up in the skin and pulling the skin itself together or using the boning to add a kind of spine
in the body wherever you want. You can also use it that far that the functionality of the boning gets used through the whole body 
which causes that the functionality of the body is almost removed since there would be no freedom in movement anymore.


1st exercise Shailoh:

connective inquiry

object: buckle
The qualities are connecting. securing and dividing/loosening, tightening and making sound. Two seperate parts that can be clicked into
one another and things can be attached to those two parts seperately. This makes two materials connected without actually
touching eachother while connecting, because the plastic does the job. Connection can be undone between the two plastic parts but 
not between the plastic parts and the material/object whatsoever attached to it. 

new context for this connector:
could be used as a seat belt fastener, since its connection and grip is quite strong and its not influencible by water for example,
so it would be easy to unfasten if necessarily. 

combined with another object: car charger it would make a portable charger.


                                                             week 3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

workshop hacking Joseph in the drawing station

introduction: some different interpretations on hacking 'hacking can be anything'. Watching the video Powers of Ten (1977). Zooming in 
and out on the human body, so seeing both the environment so also the outer edges of the universe as well as the smallest part of a human
body itself.
small exercise: Hacked the function of scissors, by using them as a tool to grab something and connecting it. Like picking up
your charger with the scissors and putting it in your phone. This way, the function of the object becomes the absolute contradict:
cutting, disconnecting into grabbing on to something and connecting.
exercise 2: body hacking, using enlarged pictures of different bodyparts of myself and teammates, creating a new different functioning 
body.


Varia

hacking lecture by Florian Cramer
the term hacking originally did not start with computers but was created by the Tech Model Railroad Club

examples given:
Yipl, blue box is linked to phone fraud
\ Addy Hoffmann- steal this book
The yes men
white head hacker vs. black head hacker (possible grey head hacker..?)
home taping is killing music (commercial 1980's) and The pirate bay using its icon.
Cornelia Sollfrank and her intervention at chaos computer club, also (co)founder of cyberfeminism
tentatively: guide dog
Franco& Eva Mattes ---- Nike Ground
Marcel Duchamp with the iconic hacked toilet, becoming art: urinoir 

food hacking workshop 

ingredient I brought: sugar
https://www.smulweb.nl/recepten/1470313/The-fastest-tomato-soup-on-earth


                                                        week 4
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I think hacking is changing the written and/or unwritten rules that are alive in a system. This can be in the body, in society, or 
the way we think of objects and use them. Everything as small and as great can be a hack, that is why i also struggle with giving a 
specific definition of hacking. For the manifesto, me and my group first focussed on the body itself and the purpose of life.
To conclude that we wanted to find a way to hack death, or actually find a way human data can overcome death. We did a lot of research 
on the theme and actual progresses about it. We found out different methods and theories that would support and help accomplishing
this 'goal'. I would say our tool would be data and research.



Manifesto
can temporary life become permanent?

Scientists predicts that by the year 2050, humans could outlive the contraints of the physical body. Genetic engineering could be used
to extend the body’s life expectancy, by reducing or reversing the ageing of cells. Advances could also lead to android bodies for
humans to live in after their own flesh and blood frames have ceased to function. And virtual reality worlds could be created for 
people to upload their consciousness into once their bodies have failed.

Could there be a hack for the way people are living and dying, it there a way to escape what all people are made for? being born 
to die later. What if we can put our brains or our souls into other devices that will let us ‘live’ on this planet forever. Would the
humanrace change from flesh and blood to robotic body’s or virtual reality games. Will baby’s no longer be born from the womb of a
human female, but be ‘born’ in a lab where there was no need for a ‘basic’ reproduction.

What if we die, but we actually don’t die but we get uploaded to the biggest cloud ever made recreating the Biblelic ‘heaven’ where 
we can live forever and ever.

MAN IS NOT A MACHINE
Although man most certainly processes information, he does not necessarily process it in the way computers do. Computers and men are not
species of the same genus. No other organism, and certainly no computer, can be made to confront genuine human problems in human terms.

Artificial intelligence isdescribed as ‘the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally requiring
human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, and translation between languages.’

Nowadays artificial intelligence would be mostly connected with computer engineering and executed in building robots, with
‘human capabilities’ like the above called perception and recognition. However, what if the system of death can be hacked by replacing
the actual human brain into a robot, for example in the form of the data of a human that will be redirected to this mechanic. While 
the soul of a person can not be maintained, the human thinking can then be preserved through death.

On facebook there are over 800 million users, and 27.000 users per day will die and their page will live forward. Some dead people 
still appear to be alive because you get notifications for their birthdays, or see a message on their timeline from someone else.

Contact with friends or family becomes more digital and we see each other less in person. It won’t be that noticeable if that person 
passes away at home all alone, because we don’t catch up with them every week and won’t miss them.

But what if it would be real? In people who pass away can upload their soul or consciousness online, and can live forward as an online
avatar to still communicate with the ‘alive’ friends and family?

When we die, our spirits get transferred on to a database. The spirit will continue to live forever, in a virtual world. By purchasing 
the ‘The Sims Expension pack: Afterlife’ you will be able to transform yourself into a virtual character, or multiple.

In here, you can build a house, a family, basically everything you could in your past life, and even more. You can choose to be male,
female, or invent a new kind of gender. It is basically a limitless game, where your spirit can live his or her afterlife for the rest
of eternity, in happiness and serenity. You can live everywhere you want, you can visit family members and friends that have passed,
if they also have purchased the game. 

Many costumers say that this virtual world is better than life on earth. No diseases, inconveniences, sadness and most of all: no death.
It’s like hacking all negative things of the real world and entering real ‘heaven’.






