-What is hacking:
Before this class for me hacking was something people do to break into systems. Unautherised access. They also help with developing firewalls by searching for leaks. Hacking can also be seen as using an object in a different way. We did research in the many ways one can use a straw. Hacking can also be seen as making a certain action easier. For example in games.

- Obeservational Tool Exercise:
In class we were asked to bring a tool we use for some form of observation.  We then had to look at the object from various perspectives as well as feel the object in our hands with eyes closed and then describe it’s properties as well as possible uses.
I used Google.
Researching the nature of certain objects brought us into the hacking mindset. We looked at how the chosen object interacts with other systems. 

Joana’s class:
We started with a exercise in which we concentrated on breathing. We focussed on our bodies trying to disctance ourselves from the environment. I became aware of every limb and muscle and the connection between these. We had to walk around in the room without touching eachother, eventually we’re all walking in the same cirkle around the pole in the middle of the room. I think this is because its the easiest, most effective way to keep a certain speed and distance between eachother. 

After this we went back to group work researching choreography and the how this comes back in daily life. Choreography can be described as a certain actions in order to produce a result/end product. We can use choreography in any system. With hacking it comes down to analysing and changing the choreography of a certain system. We then started experimenting with different objects. By analysing these objects we had to change the normal purpose of the object. Hacking the purpose. 
 
Joseph’s class:

We had to print ourselves on 11 A3 paper. We focussed on hacking in a different context. We watched a video about a cheap shitty remake of Terminator. We brought fruit to make a smoothy, mostly tasty, also linked to hacking (combining aspect). We combinded a few of the printed human bodies to remake a ‘the kiss’ out of classmates. 

Florian’s class:
Hacking = chopping. 
You can hack on any level, not only digital. Also with food, thats what we did at Varia.
He also talked about a guy who found a loophole (he hacked) passports. Via a long process of putting pieces together he was able to create a non-existing person. WITH a passport. Something straight out of movies, very interesting. To find a leak in such an important, ‘waterproof’ system is very inspiring. 

For the Soup assignment at Varia i bought Corned beef exeter. I choose this by looks. I didn’t we had to use it and maybe it. I decided not to use this ingrediënt because it doesn’t add anything, only a very bad smell. The looks is where I bought it for. I still use this package design for inspiration. 

What inspired me the most about hacking is the feeling of being ‘above’ a system because you use it in your way. Rules don’t matter for you what must give a good feeling when for example you create fake passports. 

For the group assignment we tried to find leaks in the cencorship policy used by Instagram. We wanted to show female nipples in the Instagram feed without getting banned. The focus of Instagram is on banning sexual content. Breast feeding photo’s are allowed. I focussed on taking the human aspect of the female breast out of the picture by blurring the body, leaving the nipple out. This picture got accepted.

Because of this Practice I gained a lot of inspiration that I use now for my own work. Trying to step of a certain purpose material has opens a new world of possibilities.

Thanks!
