
HACKING

What is hacking?

    Urban dictionary:
    Hacking is the gaining of access(wanted or unwanted) to a computer and viewing, copying, or creating 
    data(leaving a trace) without the intention of destroying data or maliciously harming the computer. 

    Using something and change it, and make it do what you want with it. 
    Commonly used in the opensource communety becose every one can (re)use eatch other source code. 
    
  Hacking - Motherboard https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/topic/hacking 

Reflection observational tool exercises 

    1. place the object in front of you; open and close your eyes like 'flashes', repeat this exercise
    from 3 different viewpoints find a comfortable position in relation to the object; close your eyes: 
    use tactile movements, feel beyond the shape: the temperature, sounds, dimensions, compare its properties 
    with the ones of your own body; change again the position of your body (altering possible trajectories);
    be aware of the negative space and how the objects relates to its surroundings.

    describe the object from your point of view; what are its performative qualities and affordances 
    (sustained/ contained/ continuous/ discrete/ allows for a sequence of actions/ operational); in which 
    context can it be used?
   
                  round thin glass
                  Brown see through plastic
                  Specsavers 5000932 L ce
                  Scharnieren
                  You can use it to see. Makes your vision better
    
    describe the object from the point of view of the object; build a small glossary for the object — 
    "as if it would speak and have a language of its own"; you can look into references and find "members 
    of the same family";

                  Sun glasses
                  It sees the world
                  But sharper

    reflect: make notes on the different processes/ procedures it allows you to undertake; what methods of 
    observation and annotation did you use? is there an alternative to them?
    
                  Emperical observation
                  Looking, typing
                  Step by step

  2. Inspection tool: glasses
     Going to inspect: 
     Software: digital color measurer (apple)
     Object: plastic cup 


grow the keywords/ glossary about what Hacking (tip: add your own references);
gather documentation on the two sessions with Shailoh and Joana;

Summary on Hacking lecture by Florian Cramer
  At Varia in Rotterdam Zuid we got a lecture by Florian Cramer about hacking. 
  First he asked us from what different disciplines in art school we were all from. 
          I am from graphic design
  He asked us to think about what graphic design could be like without using the usual tools.
  Where does hacking come from?
    A group TMRC called themselves 'hackers' 
   He talked about lockpicking, where you try to open all kinds of different locks without using the key.
   Mechanical clock building
   Food/trash hacking
   Open access, sharing knowledge
   Jargon: hackerslang
   Playing with systems
   Jargonfile
   He gave us a lot of cool, interesting examples of 'hackers'. 
      - Captain crunch
      - YIPL zines
      - gonreib hacker xs4all hack
      - election computer hack
      - the yes men
    Blackhead and whitehead hackers.
    Is there a greyhead? What are we?
    ubuweb, ubu.com 

write a summary on the exercise you developed at Varia;

Soups
I brought tomatoes

revise all the topics above and reflect on the possible meaning of 'Hacking' (Respond to the questions: 
What is the context in which you operated? What phygical systems did you investigate? What did you find? 
What is your hacking method? If your method is a tool set, how would you explain to someone else how to use
it? In what way are these tools limited/biased?);


Group assignment: brainstorm
@LIBRARY ROTTERDAM
We were first thinking about hacking a system like the stockmarket or bitcoin. But for bitcoin it would be too 
difficult because everyone has a different point of view about that. And when everyone sees something differently
it would be harder to hack it. 
Then we came to (online) pyramid marketing, people are convinced to sign up.
Which lead us to the Instagram bots that do this too. In all kinds of businesses.
And that brought us to the censorship of Instagram and the bots they use for that.
We thought about what is being censored on the internet and on Instagram. The nipple is one of those things. 
When you show it on Instagram the post gets deleted, but only if it is a women's nipple, not if it is a men's.
We thought it was interesting to look up the limits of that. How far could we get by manipulating images. 
We tried it out using our Instagram page 'https://www.instagram.com/kcahefil/' were we posted all kinds of different 
pictures to test if they would get deleted. In this way we are hacking this system of censorship.
