Autonomous hacking

Bente Nagtegaal
0943130



------------ What is hacking? ------------


8 april

Critical engineering manifesto
What does the critical engineer do:
-deploy
-re-purpose
-implement
-technopolitical

affordances // interfaces // anatomy


11 april

Inspect the inspection tool

My inspection tool: big tweezers
I chose this tool because it relates to my major, fashion, for which it is used to inspect fabrics.
By pulling out threads of a fabric with tweezers, you can inspect the material.
In my major, it is also used in machines such as a sewing machine and an overlock machine to pull the thread through.
I assumed that tweezers are most regularly used to pull hair.
By feeling it, and holding it I observed these things:
// cold // heavy // light sound // clicking // picking // pinching // bend
comparable to: pinching finger and thumb // two fingers // legs // arm
motion: pinching // picking up small things // squeezing
According to some of its components, I came up with other purposes.
hole in the center > hang up // push through // necklace // ornament
pinching force > hold something together // push outwards
tip > poking // making a hole
use for eating (instead of chopsticks)
use to make music (clicking)


Inspection tool from classmate: a lighter
purpose mostly used for: lighting cigarettes
purpose used for in my major: burning threads to inspect a material/fibre
halfwarm // light // clicking // pushing // thumb
comparable to: toes, feet
motion: bending thumb to push the button


In a group
inspection tools
1. tweezers
2. lighter
3. book
4. sketchbook

2+4 temporary use, lose value.
1+3 will not use value.




14 april

Choreography

feeling your own body
being mindful of other bodies and movement

meaning
'writing movement'
// being instead of doing // elusive // agile //

our examples:
tide > high/low depending on the place of the moon - natural agency
The waves of the sea creating a choreography by the place of the moon.
birthcontrol pill > human - human modification
Changing the natural choreography of the humans menstruation cycle.

Corset
purpose: used to make an ideal bodytype
how to choreograph without the object
// body modification // pulling skin // combining things //


1. adding
2. substracting/deviding/separating
3. transforming techniques


object: car charger
It's a round outlet for in your car. With an USB and android outlet, to charge your phone in the car.
Has a 1 meter cable. Has a button that makes the cable roll back in one quick movement.
other purposes
// to pick something up, use the button to bring it towards you
// as a toy for a dog or a cat
// seatbelt
// fan
// belt

choose a system > something you use yourself



18 april
hacking by joseph

chindogu
an attitude, way of seeing the world differently

Hacking can be anything, small or big

using scissors as an extended arm

hacking our own bodies by combining and changing bodyparts of classmates
(picture)



24 april
lecture by florian kramer

definition of hacking > desturbing a system
'expert or enthousiast of all kind' - can make you a hacker

My study > blackhead hacking, whitehead hacking, or in between/ greyhead culture?

cyberfeminism, cornelia sollfrank
fertility tracker hacking
Nike ground, franco & eva mattes
Ingold airlines, Res Ingold
urinal, r. mutt

Hacking is not a new thing, it has been going on for many years, under different names.



Manuscript

Nobody can escape death, but what if you can?
Bente Nagtegaal 0943130

According to Ray Kurzweil, the life-expectancy from 2025 will raise by 1 year a year. 
That means that nobody will ever die, if you get treated with the newest technologies.
Techniques such as reprogramming of genes, like switching off elderly-genes and fat-genes, will result in us being healthier. 
Miniscule robots will live in our bodies to keep us healthy. This way we won’t die of old age or sickness. 
Some scientists claim that the human body isn’t made to live longer than 150 years.
Ian Person says, that people that are born after 1970 have eternal life, unless you get a terrible disease.
Genetic manipulation is the future for eternal life. Because of this you can be a 90-year old in a 30-year old body.
Another theory is that we use robots to extend our lives. 
Person says that we can link our spirit to the world of machines so well, that we can effectively live in the ‘cloud’. 
He says that this can be reality within 50 years. If you die, your spirit gets saved on a computer, to live further in a robot-body.
And another theory is to live further in a virtual world. 
If our spirit is in a database, we don’t need robots and we can live happily ever after in a computer simulation. 
Online, in the virtual world.



Manifesto

The Sims Expension Pack: Afterlife
Bente Nagtegaal, Fashion year 2, 0943130
Manifesto Hacking

When we die, our spirits get transferred on to a database. 
The spirit will continue to live forever, in a virtual world. 
By purchasing the ‘The Sims Expension pack: Afterlife’ you will be able to transform yourself into a virtual character, or multiple. 
In here, you can build a house, a family, basically everything you could in your past life, and even more. 
You can choose to be male, female, or invent a new kind of gender. 
It is basically a limitless game, where your spirit can live his or her afterlife for the rest of eternity, in happiness and serenity. 
You can live everywhere you want, you can visit family members and friends that have passed, if they also have purchased the game. 
Many costumers say that this virtual world is better than life on earth. No diseases, inconveniences, sadness and most of all: no death. 
It’s like hacking all negative things of the real world and entering real ‘heaven’.

---

Manifesto together with my group: Lianne, Pascale, Naomi and me

MANIFESTO
can temporary life become permanent?

Scientists predicts that by the year 2050, humans could outlive the contraints of the physical body. 
Genetic engineering could be uses to extend the body’s life expectancy, by reducing or reversing the ageing of cells. 
Advances could also lead to android bodies for humans to live in after their own flesh and blood frames have ceased to function. 
And virtual reality worlds could be created for people to upload their consciousness into once their bodies have failed.
Could there be a hack for the way people are living and dying, it there a way to escape what all people are made for?
Being born to die later. What if we can put our brains or our souls into other devices that will let us ‘live’ on this planet forever. 
Would the human race change from flesh and blood to robotic body’s or virtual reality games. 
Will baby’s no longer be born from the womb of a human female, but be ‘born’ in a lab where there was no need for a ‘basic’ reproduction.
What if we die, but we actually don’t die but we get uploaded to the biggest cloud ever made recreating the Biblelic ‘heaven’ 
where we can live forever and ever.

MAN IS NOT A MACHINE
Although man most certainly processes information, he does not necessarily process it in the way computers do.
Computers and men are not species of the same genus. 
No other organism, and certainly no computer, can be made to confront genuine human problems in human terms.
Artificial intelligence is described as ‘the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally requiring
human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, and translation between languages.’
Nowadays artificial intelligence would be mostly connected with computer engineering and executed in building robots, with
‘human capabilities’ like the above called perception and recognition. However, what if the system of death can be hacked by 
replacing the actual human brain into a robot, for example in the form of the data of a human that will be redirected to this
mechanic. While the soul of a person can not be maintained, the human thinking can then be preserved through death.
On facebook there are over 800 million users, and 27.000 users per day will die and their page will live forward.
Some dead people still appear to be alive because you get notifications for their birthdays, or see a message on their 
timeline from someone else.
Contact with friends or family becomes more digital and we see each other less in person.
It won’t be that noticeable if that person passes away at home all alone, because we don’t catch up with them
every week and won’t miss them.
But what if it would be real? In people who pass away can upload their soul or consciousness online, and can live 
forward as an online avatar to still communicate with the ‘alive’ friends and family?
When we die, our spirits get transferred on to a database. The spirit will continue to live forever, in a virtual world. 
By purchasing the ‘The Sims Expension pack: Afterlife’ you will be able to transform yourself into a virtual character, or
multiple. In here, you can build a house, a family, basically everything you could in your past life, and even
more. You can choose to be male, female, or invent a new kind of gender. It is basically a limitless game, where your 
spirit can live his or her afterlife for the rest of eternity, in happiness and serenity. You can live everywhere you want, 
you can visit family members and friends that have passed, if they also have purchased the game.
Many costumers say that this virtual world is better than life on earth. No diseases, inconveniences, sadness and most of 
all: no death. It’s like hacking all negative things of the real world and entering real ‘heaven’.

[facebook visual]

---


To me the definition of hacking is changing a system.
Taking away or adding a small part to a system.
Even something small can have a big outcome, or be the first step towards changing bigger things.


For me, taking the course Hacking was very interesting. In the past I might have connected it with only digital hacking,
or those DIY life hack videos on youtube. Learning about the broader meaning of hacking, and the ways you can implement it
into autonomous ways of designing, was very valuable for me.
Unfortunately, our group did not understand the group assignment right, because we thought it was the goal to create a
manifesto. We then later added a visual of one the hacks we invisioned. Although it was very informative and interesting to 
research the topic we had chosen, so we were happy we chose this. But maybe for next classes, just an extra feedback moment
would have been very useful, since this could have been prevented that way.
All and all I enjoyed exploring 'hacking' and I really enjoy the autonomous way of thinking and creating.
