Pascale Schutten
0951867




8 April

What is hacking?

Hacking is finding alterations that weren’t intended by the maker, especially for computers.
Complexity doesn’t play a role, it can be an easy, fast alternative solution. 
Example: using a clothespin to prevent your pants getting stuck between your bike is also a ‘hack’. 
‘Normal’ inventions or improvements aren’t hacks, when they are being used for what they are made for.


What are Affordances?

affordances: different ways to interact with objects.
a chair not only to sit on, you can also throw it around.
it is a way of hacking. it is about inspecting a tool and finding out an other way to do something with it.
doing something else with it than the world wants you to.

An affordance pionts out both ways, to the enviroment and to the observer - Jame J. Gibson

Physics A surface forming a common boundary between two portions of matter or space, for example between two immiscible liquids.
‘the surface tension of a liquid at its air/liquid interface’

Interfaces: the common boundery of (media) people and (media) apparatures is one example of what we call an interface.
An interface is not something that appears for you, but more as a gateaway.

interface: A point where two systems, subjects, organizations, etc. meet and interact.

‘the interface between accountancy and the law’

Computing 
A device or program enabling a user to communicate with a computer.

‘a graphical user interface’



anatomy: is the branch of biology concerned with the study of structure of organisms and their parts.





11 April

Discussing the inspection tools

inspection tool: a sketchbook
i chose the sketchbook because i observe and proces information through writing and sketching inspiration or ideas. 

it is a little leather book you can unfold. it has a pen and different sticky papers in colors and shapes to attach to the plain paper. 
i use it to write things down such as notes or ideas, but i also sketch onjects to communicate ideas for others and my self.
it has a temporary use because the paper can be 'full' and the pen can run out of ink. you can create little artworks with the sticky paper,
ot make sounds with it. i see the booklet as an extension from my brain because i can work out information and ideas on paper
to make it more clear for myself, amd it can store information as a memory stick, because i will forget the information.

i found it hard to observe this object because i don't think it is very interesting to go through it possibilities, it is not that complex.
but on the other hand, you have to think about what the object is capable of and i found some interesting points.

- drawing
- folding
- sticking
- communicate
- pulling of
- writing

inspection tool: De kunst en haar wereldmissie - Rudolf Steiner (book)
the inspection tool from a classmate

it is book you can read. it has information or a story to proces. you can read it once or multiple times, but it won't expire.
you have to put a lot of effort in it to understand the information it communicates through the text of the writer.

- fold
- produce sound
- use it as an weight
- read
- throw
- rip apart
- inspire
- sketch


differences in objects (in a group)

1. tweezer
2. lighter
3. book
4. sketchbook

temporary use (2&4) vs doesn't lose value (1&3)
communicating (3&4) vs physical activity (1&2)

14 April

Choreograpy has become a mathaphore for dynamic constalations of any kind consciously choreographed or not,
self organizing or artifically constructed...
Michael Klein, Steve Valk: What do you choreograph at the end of the world.

The first thing we started doing that day way laying down for 15 minutes. 
I became aware of my pressure points, bloodstream, breathing and the connected bodyparts.

After that we started to walk around the classroom with the other students. 
There was music playing and we had to move around the room and keeping an equal space between every student.
I became aware of the movements we make, also in connection with the rhytem. 


Patterns have unconsious influence on our life, like how we moved around the room, but also the way traffic has a system in a city.

Choreographie: percieved patterns in nature. 
Writing movement

Choreography is the term that presides over a class of ideas: 
an idea is perhaps in this case a thought or a suggestion as to a possible course of ... to probhibitor construct the substitution or
mobalization of terms whitin this domain is counterintuitive.
Eclits action upon action.

Examples Choreographed systems:
-Bloodstream through vessels
-'Eb en vloed'
-Menstruation pills

Inspecting objects: a korset
reshaping the body by tightening the korset around the waist. eventually organs and the skeleton will change in your body.
We looked at the function of the object and the different materials it was made of.

what else can you do with it?
- keepings objects together
- use it as a bag
- deforming body: antiageing, skinnier, piercing korset

Making things (hacking):
- Adding/multiplying/conjoining
- Dividing/separating
- Transforming
(baking cookies is also a hack)

everything is connected with eachother
example: fibers in a robe as a methaphor. overlapping beings that connects

Exercise: Choose an object and hack it (unstapler)
- have more grip to untie you shoelaces
- grabbing things that are too smal for your fingers

unstapler + zipper:
- use the unstapler to have more grip to unzip the zipper


18 April

Hacking is an attitude and a way of seeing the world. It can be stupid an easy. 
It is a way of interpreting different objects together.

Exercise 1: hack an object
I hacked a banana by peeling it by a door.
I hacked a chair by putting objects on it to transport the object.
(link video)

Exercise 2: hack your body by the images your brought of your body
(link photo)

24 April at Varia

tech model railroad club (TMRC)
massachussets institute of technology 1946
origin of hacking, didn't start with computers

examples:
- flute in conflakespackage: the tone on the flute led to free calling
- yesman
- programmed system: stretch their abilities (voting got manipultated, back to paper)
- whitehead/blackhead
- the piratebay
- dadaism
- artist (a lot is reproduced, or based on something existing)
- cornelia sollfrank (lost fertile computer)
- nike ground 2003
- sexual hacking
- performance: man played a blind leading dog to get a free ride onpublic transport
- bonuskaart
- readymade

workshop food hacking


making a soup of all the brought ingredients from the students. Poor people did this also in history.
(did not try, it was disgusting)

tomato soup hacking
original/ new receipt

- 1,25 kg tomato/ 1,5 kg tomato
- 1 onion/ 0,5 onion
- 1 carrot/ 1 carrot
- 1 celery stick/ 2 celery stick
- 2 spoon olive oil/ 2 spoon olive oil
- 2 squirts tomato puree/ 2 squirts tomato puree
- sugar/ sugar
- bay leaves/ mais
- 1 spoon cream/ 1,5 pepper
- water/ water

how to do: put everything together at the same time, and then boil and mix it.

12 may

i invested in the hacking of life. It is a difficult subject, but it is since beginning of mankind a big topic of discussion because 
no one ever found a real hack. People comfort themself by thinking there is life after dead, and made up legends that live forever. 
but is it really possible? And is it even true?
And i think it is a really interesting subject. I looked at the history of life expection and it grew inmensly through time.
And after some research i found a really interesting topic about death people on facebook, and made up a new theory. 
I do not have that much insight on biology or technology to come up with a real hack, but it was already interesting to think about it.

On facebook there are over 800 million users, and 27.000 users per day will die and their page will live forward. 
Some dead people still appear to be alive because you get notifications for their birthdays, 
or see a message on their timeline from someone else. Contact with friends or family becomes more digital and 
we see each other less in person. It won’t be that noticeable if that person passes away at home all alone, 
because we don’t catch up with them every week and won’t miss them. But what if it would be real? 
In people who pass away can upload their soul or consciousness online, 
and can live forward as an online avatar to still communicate with the ‘alive’ friends and family?

in my group we made a manifesto on our thoughts about hacking life

We hacked a Facebook account by putting in the data of a deceased person and letting the thoughts of this person still control the page.
The data will be uploaded when the person concerned passes away. 
With data we recall the memories, characteristics, opinions and social relationships of a person. 
The data decides what the person is going to comment or post on for example news flashes, posts of others etc. 
We hacked both the purpose of Facebook as well as the natural way/circle of life and death.

(manifesto and visual are e-mailed)



MANIFESTO
can temporary life become permanent?

Scientists predicts that by the year 2050, humans could outlive the contraints of the physical body. 
Genetic engineering could be uses to extend the body’s life expectancy, by reducing or reversing the ageing of cells. 
Advances could also lead to android bodies for humans to live in after their own flesh and blood frames have ceased to function. 
And virtual reality worlds could be created for people to upload their consciousness into once their bodies have failed.
Could there be a hack for the way people are living and dying, it there a way to escape what all people are made for?
Being born to die later. What if we can put our brains or our souls into other devices that will let us ‘live’ on this planet forever. 
Would the human race change from flesh and blood to robotic body’s or virtual reality games. 
Will baby’s no longer be born from the womb of a human female, but be ‘born’ in a lab where there was no need for a ‘basic’ reproduction.
What if we die, but we actually don’t die but we get uploaded to the biggest cloud ever made recreating the Biblelic ‘heaven’ 
where we can live forever and ever.

MAN IS NOT A MACHINE
Although man most certainly processes information, he does not necessarily process it in the way computers do.
Computers and men are not species of the same genus. 
No other organism, and certainly no computer, can be made to confront genuine human problems in human terms.
Artificial intelligence is described as ‘the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally requiring
human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, and translation between languages.’
Nowadays artificial intelligence would be mostly connected with computer engineering and executed in building robots, with
‘human capabilities’ like the above called perception and recognition. However, what if the system of death can be hacked by 
replacing the actual human brain into a robot, for example in the form of the data of a human that will be redirected to this
mechanic. While the soul of a person can not be maintained, the human thinking can then be preserved through death.
On facebook there are over 800 million users, and 27.000 users per day will die and their page will live forward.
Some dead people still appear to be alive because you get notifications for their birthdays, or see a message on their 
timeline from someone else.
Contact with friends or family becomes more digital and we see each other less in person.
It won’t be that noticeable if that person passes away at home all alone, because we don’t catch up with them
every week and won’t miss them.
But what if it would be real? In people who pass away can upload their soul or consciousness online, and can live 
forward as an online avatar to still communicate with the ‘alive’ friends and family?
When we die, our spirits get transferred on to a database. The spirit will continue to live forever, in a virtual world. 
By purchasing the ‘The Sims Expension pack: Afterlife’ you will be able to transform yourself into a virtual character, or
multiple. In here, you can build a house, a family, basically everything you could in your past life, and even
more. You can choose to be male, female, or invent a new kind of gender. It is basically a limitless game, where your 
spirit can live his or her afterlife for the rest of eternity, in happiness and serenity. You can live everywhere you want, 
you can visit family members and friends that have passed, if they also have purchased the game.
Many costumers say that this virtual world is better than life on earth. No diseases, inconveniences, sadness and most of 
all: no death. It’s like hacking all negative things of the real world and entering real ‘heaven’.


conclusion:
I learned a lot of interesting things about hacking, and saw a lot of examples. Hacking is a really brought subject but it is clear to me.
hacking is not limeted to computers or systems, but could literally be anything.
hacking for me is altering a system/function/object/purpose to something else, meaningfull or not.

