Algorythm - A series of rules, procedures for solving a mathematical or logical problem
Phygital - A combination of the words physical and digital, the term phygital refers to a marketing approach that involves integrating 
digital elements into the physical point of sale.
Biometrics - In the field of authentication, biometrics is the method whereby a person is recognized according to personal traits, 
presumably ones they cannot change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FhbMLmsCax0
Our lot is cast with technoscience, where nothing is so sacred that it cannot be re-engineered and transformed so as to widen our 
aperture of freedom, extending to gender and the human. (the conscience of a hacker, 0X11)
Affordance - is an object's properties that shows or suggests the possible actions for the user to take. It makes door "pushable' or 
chair "sittable". 

After gathering some information from the first lectures and manifestos, I formed my initial understanding of what hacking can be:
Hacking is a dissatisfaction of group or individual with an existing system.
Hacking is a searching for a better possibilities and use of an object/a system
Hacking does not put anything in a status of being "sacred". Everything and everyone can be hacked.
Hacking is a non-standart and very analyzed approach to things. 

Week 1:
Researching the tools

Google maps:
soft light colors,
easily controlled by fingers
look on the city from above – look at the map from above – double perpendicular view
easily disorienting (the arrow points the other directions)

easily accessible
looking beyond the reality
continuity based on phone charge
easy searching
voice activated – tactile
visual travel
evokes imagination, brain completes the image
compact
navigate OTHERS from a distance
perpendicular navigation is easy

Gives a possibility to compare
Nostalgic (looking at places you have been to, without a purpose of navigating)
-communication between people (showing places, telling stories while showing pictures)
-looking foe patterns
-rating glaciers, seas, mountains, etc.

Measuring tape
rattling pleasurable sound
Changes properties instantly: small heavy box becomes light box with a tape stretched out 5 meters
object that fits my hand becomes 3 times longer than myself
loud when tape breaks
makes me change the position of my body when pulling out the tape

Narrows down to one task
easily transportable
continuous in use
measures and hooks up objects to bring them closer

Possibility to record sound effects
to itch my back
hook someone’s pants
scratch heads

Week2:
What is Choreography?
Rhythm
Space and reaction to the environment
a model of transition from one state to another in any space imaginable
"It can be whatever you want"
Choreography gives space

During the class my group and I were discussing the objects that we all brought for inspection. We all had a lot of interesting examples,
and in the end we chose to inspect a Gameboy that Polly brought. We started with analyzing the system of the console and how it supposed
to work in a first place. After we found that out, we started coming up with ideas on how else it could be used. In the end, we were 
thinking about the actual “hacking” – how we could alter the object so it serves different purposes. For example, one of the idea was 
to switch the buttons and change the controls of the games. In this case, the gamers will be able to find new kind of pleasure in playing
games, because they would have to retrain themselves. With that, the act of playing the same game will become something more interesting,
especially for those who thinks that playing games became very easy. As another option, I proposed to use the Gameboy controls to play
the synthesizer . By detaching the screen and hooking up the console to the actual instrument. That some programming is needed and here 
we go: we can play on the keyboard by pressing the controls.

Joseph class:
Hack yourself before hacking a system
In Japan they reinvent technologies to satisfy basic needs (cooling down ramen while eating, protect shoes from the rain). They are looking for the inconveniences to hack them and invent a solution (even the most ridiculous)
tennis balls on the chairs' legs - hack! 
Hack is an attitude
Every simple action is followed up by several micro actions, which are most of the times not acknowledged (open the window: stand up, turn, walk, stop, raise hand, take the handle, pull a handle...)
Results of fast-hacking with Derrik:
1. Use a trash can as a phone holder (phone is stuck between the trashcan and a swinging lid)
2. Using a coffee machine as a tool for drawing, while removing a cup and letting the stream go on a sketchbook 

I have also brought an examle of a recent hack I consider interesting:
https://www.kukuangyi.com/the-fellatio-modification-project---male-masturbation-cup-mouth.html
It is called "Male Masturbation Cup Mouth" and the first time I heard about it is during the "Tech Art" lectures held at the Worm. 
I think it is a very nice example to the human and nature hacking, a good representation of how human can enhance or confront the powers
of something that concidered to be "supreme". I find it fascinating that human being, if there are no mental or societal restrictions |
take place, has powers to subdue the nature rules and benefit from it. In the end, who doesn't want to have the most pleasure during the
oral sex?)
The creator of the project, Kuang-Yi Ku, before his studies at the Eindhoven design academie, used to work as a dentist. It is quite 
interesting to see how he finds the application for his medical career in the field of art and design. 


Week3:
Lecture with Florian Cramer:

What was interesting to me: 
Captain crunch
John Draper became world-known hacker who discovered that a toy whistle from the Cap’n Crunch cereal boxes emits a tone that sounds like
an electric signal to access a long-distance telephone network.

Cornelia Sollfrank

She made a project net.art generator. This is a computer program which collects and recombines material from the Internet to create a 
new website or a new image. The program requires the user to enter a title which then functions as the search keyword, and to enter a 
name as the author. 

Another significant project was Female Extension. It resulted from a fake registration of almost 300 women in a net.art competition by
the art gallery in Hamburg. She invented profiles for women artist and the machine did the artistic works of all them. The cultural 
institution was satisfied that so mane women submitted their works.

Heath Bunting

Garnett Hertz

I really liked the lecture by Florian Cramer, mostly because it arose more interest in hacking history. Before it was still a bit 
difficult to find the examples of artistic hacking online, however, the lecture provided a good ground for the research. I was, however,
very tired during the actual presentation, but good thing I was taking notes and I could look into the subject later at home.
A lot of these works are referring to the actual “hacking”, using this specific word. However, maybe it is not that relevant, but I was
interested to find my own examples of what I personally consider “hacking” where artist are not necessarily digitally intervene with a
system but what they do, can be named “hack” as well. For example, one of my favorite 3D animators, David O’Riley, wrote an essay on the
animation aesthetic back in 2009. He knew that as an independent artist, he could not produce realistic CGI on a studio level, neither 
he wanted to do that. He mentions that 3d animation is at a stage where many people have access to the tools but very few have any 
meaningful guidelines on how to use them. The problem is that there is simply too much power and very little control.
He dived into exploring the world of 3D animation and used its tools to create something entirely different and minimalist, than what
used to be popular in that times. He “Hacks” the established aesthetic of 3D and invents his own language, proving that artificiality
and unrealistic image can communicate emotion and hold cinematic truth. 

Souping exercise:
*Was very happy that I managed to try the soup*
I think that the format of the class was pretty interesting and involved real-life example. Each of us had to bring a component, 
but we didn't yet know what for. Turned out to be, we had to put our ingridients into a boiling water and cook a soup out of it. 
Even though it was rather disgusting, I found it interesting that we were asked to analyze our ingridient. Yesterday I didn't 
even think about a bell pepper, and today I have learnt that it was brought to Europe by Christofor Columbus! 
Then we had to cook a "better" soup for another group of students. We were discussing which elements of the soup could be removed
or changed to make it more considerate.

week 4 and so on:
 
Group hacking project:

SlipNip on Instagram

Our concept was to investigate the social network’s censorship policy and to prove that there is a possibility to slip a female nipple 
picture without censoring it.

In the first week we started with a meeting at the Blaak library where we discussed various concepts and tried to come up with ideas for
the future hack. We stopped at the Instagram and decided to explore the system of the censorship (I guess someone mentioned a picture 
where woman’s breast was masked by photoshop). We were resenting the policy of hiding a female nipple while male nipples are not 
considered to be censored. Throughout the firs week we were mostly researching and gathering information on the system of Instagram. 
I found pretty interesting facts about nudity policy, but I never found the actual explanation on why is it prohibited specifically 
for women’s nipples. Instagram claims that it effectively tries to conceal  pornography and nudity content, because of the multicultural
and multi-age users around the world. However, I found a very weird loophole – if you still type #sexy or #girls etc., it leads to the 
thousand pictures among which we can easily find pornography and nudity. So how come Instagram bans every “nipple” picture from the 
users while leaving a lot of porn content easily accessible? Some claim it is made to be so on purpose, because that is one of a major 
ways for the Instagram to earn money. Other say it is due to the lack of page reporting, which makes it invisible target for the 
moderators. But are there moderators or ai behind the uploads?
There are billions of images uploaded on Instagram every second, which makes it impossible for the human moderators to fix every 
inappropriate picture. However, If it is up for AI to decide what is shown on the picture – how come so many of them are still 
existing on the site?

We split our work process in several parts:
1) research
2) creating an Instagram page for uploading nipple pictures
3) creating the content using our creative abilities
4) promoting and paying for one of of our pictures.

Okay, so we know that for some reason, women nipples are not allowed on insta. But what is allowed and how can we trick the system? 
Through research, it was clear that the pictures of the nudity in painting and sculpture is allowed, as well as breast feeding and 
post-mastectomy scarring. 




 



