HACKING

What is hacking? 
definition: breaking into or intervening into a system and changing and or destroying it from the inside out.
Keywords: violence, invasion, intervention, change, 

Manifest: ‘THE CRITICAL ENGINEERING MANIFESTO’
https://criticalengineering.org
-> technopolitics, deconstruction, implementation, vulnerability, interrelationships, philosophy, strategy.
Quote from manifesto:
"the greater the dependence on (a) technology, 
 the greater the need to study and expose its inner workings
 regardless of ownership or legal provision”
------> showing vulnerability of public to mass surveillance

Our dependance of technology needs to be paired with a hunger to keep on reflecting on it. This is something I’ve read multiple times, for example Shason Zuboff comes back to this in her book ‘The Age of Surveillance Capitalism’. 

Observational tool exercises:
inspection tool: pair of yellow scissors
 	contrast sharp+hard vs. warm+soft
	but also contrast in professional vs. informal (a child could use it, but also a business man)
	sounds like a typical scissor: mmmmmtsjak 
	methods of observation: touch, smell, seeing, use, sounds

Anatomy of Connectology exercise:
zuignap
use: to hang things on a flat surface, to make things seem vague when looking through, as a screw, to fidget
how: licking improves the function, put it on a clean, flat surface
material: plastic with metal
reshaped and bent
transparant and grey

Names mentioned
Donna Harraway
James Gibson; affordances: all the things you can do with an object
-an affordance points both ways, to the environment and to the observer-
Dan Norman; ‘Design of Everyday Things’: all the things you perceive you can do with an object
Galloway; interface action: interfaces; ‘in between surfaces’, 
	communication/connection
	the common boundary of (media) people and (media) apparatus is one example of what we 		call an interface
	 based on a world of at least a duality
Marshall Mcluhan; media vs interface

Lecture Joana Choreography
choreography -> dynamic constellations, conscious or not, aesthetic practice, patterns in nature, 
 
first a documentation tool, later became a prescription/definition/interaction
   -> zoom in+out: handlevel, body level, world level

etymology: writing movement: dance + writing = xoros + yraphia (greek)
 chora= space
 choreo= to give room, to make space
 [making public = confined yet open space]
    score: cut in woord } etym.
    scar: cut in skin?  } etym.
    
-choreography explores physicality of the body-
 flesh: physicalized relational field of interaction, intensities, techniques
invert choreography
-> scripted movement

-structure that renews relations inside systems+objects
-wants action, change, ideas, failure
-cannot be captured in one definition, too broad

Ways to ‘write’ choreography
-EWMN: Eshkol-Wachman Movement Notation
-labnotation

Examples of Choreography Mapping
 -society: 
   wetboek
 -human <> non human programming:
   tutorials, ikea manual
 -natural agency:
   stamboom (family tree)
 -human <> computer programming/society
   instagram algoritme
 -human <> human programming

--hacking gestures--
 humans are so used to routinely following gestures (eg: clicking a certain button on your phone will lower the volume). if you hack this system by changing up the placement of the buttons, confusion will arise.

Lecture Florian Cramer @Varia
what is hacking?
 -> breaking into systems with unwritten rules

hacking-hakken (chopping) 
 e.g. fixing a table (stabilizing) in a different way then it is supposed to be fixed, is not real carpenting
lifehack = shortcut
Hacking without your usual toolkit, for this you first need to define your toolkit. Eg: what is MY toolkit inside my major (lifestyle Transformation Design).

origin of hacking:
TMRC (Tech Model Railroad Club) @ MIT, 1946
-> original hacker culture: 'playing' with things
ex: lockpicking -> mechanical hacking

look into: 
-superuse studios -> poortgebouw -> worm/wunderbar (squatting community)
-open design now (book), same mindset as dave hakkens (design academy eindhoven, precious plastic) —> designs/blueprints should be available for everyone

*playing with systems
 *open access (sharing knowledge)
 *jargon/'hacker-slang' (d-dos attack)

Names mentioned
-John Draper; cap ’n’ crunch —>flute, free phone calls —> blue boxes, Steve Jobs —> YIPL (youth international party line)
-Abbie Hofman; steal this book  -> counterculture, living off the grid, 1960s (link hacking-counterculture)
-2600; hacker zine
-XS4ALL; started as a ‘pirate’ telecom company (?)
-the Yes Men -> fake news, WTO
-Cornelia Sollfrank; intervention @ chaos computer club, contraception computer
  -> putting an object in a different situation/space then where it belongs
-Piratenpartij, pirate bay; reminds me of the old commercials before watching a movie: ‘Piraterij is een misdrijf’

black head hacker vs white head hacker
-> why can't there be such a thing as a grey head hacker?


Cooking exercise @ Varia
Collectively cooking a soup for the other group.
We had to make a meal for the other group with the ingredients that were bought for us. The ingredients and order + way it was to go in the pan was up to us. We gathered all the needed sources and divided tasks pretty naturally. The goal was to make the meal as inclusive as possible, so we first discussed all the ingredients one by one, to decide whether they were inclusive or not. For example, we doubted about the olive oil, because it is produced under questionable circumstances. The soup was already vegetarian and made with fresh ingredients, so we didn’t have to cut out meat. There was however an option to put cream in it afterwards, but we opted to leave it open for the eaters whether they wanted the diary (non-vegan) option. 
After chopping up the veggies, we put everything in the pan in the order we thought was best. We stuck mostly to the recipe, not because we didn’t want to experiment but because we truly believed the soup was best when we followed the order written down. We called our soup ‘the perfect avondvierdaagse soup’ because we researched that most of the ingredients (cabbage etc) were good against blisters, infections and sore muscles, hence the name. The avondvierdaagse is a Dutch tradition where kids in primary school go to walk 5 or 10km for 4 days in a week in the spring, to support activity in leisure time under young kids. 


What is the context in which you operated? What phygical systems did you investigate? What did you find? What is your hacking method? If your method is a tool set, how would you explain to someone else how to use it? In what way are these tools limited/biased?

Our own hack: privacy violation on coffee machines
For our own hacking intervention, we wanted to explore the relationship between AI facial recognition and everyday life. We know we are being filmed, in movie theatres, in public transportation, even on the street. But what happens with those images? And who is observing them? We wanted to make the observees the observers again, by giving the images of themselves back. 

We used a webcam and a Raspberry Pi to hack the coffee machines in the Blaak schoolbuilding. 

I looked into Surveillance Capitalism, a term coined by Shoshana Zuboff.

Instead of in traditional capitalism, in where labor, time and material resources are converted to products for the consumer, in surveillance capitalism it is about changing data to personalized advertisements of services and products. In short: online companies keep track of what you search, buy and do on the internet to sketch an image of you as a consumer, what they use to target new products to you. They create a future image and are able to predict your taste in products before you even know it. This can only work if the consumer allows to show their preferences. It creates a data dystopia, where behavioral data is being stored for later use. 

Human behavior is being chewed for us, we think we make our own decisions when in reality there is a algorithm behind it which knows our every move.

—Surveillance is the business model of the internet. The combination of state surveillance and its capitalist counterpart means that digital technology is separating the citizens in all societies into two groups: the watchers (invisible, unknown and unaccountable), and the watched, the public, mass. Asymmetry of knowledge creates asymmetry of power.—

Why this all happens, is a really simple question: money. Surveillance capitalists can get their capital from this ‘trading system’ (data for targeted ads). Companies with the best, personalized marketing will make the most profit. 


CONCLUSION:
Hacking has become a way of criticizing a system to me. Expressing criticism happens most of the time because people don’t agree with (a part of) the system, and thus are trying to change that system. I am convinced art can play a rol in criticizing existing systems, making people conscious about their choices and changing the world for the better. Hacking in this term is very broad, what I really like, and can be applied in many forms in many situations. A simple ‘lifehack’ that for example will make life easier for your grandma, can have an impact as well as ‘hacking’ a company like the Yes Men did. There is no limit to the impact an action should have, no way to measure the outcome besides through its results on the people involved in it. 



sources:
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/jan/20/shoshana-zuboff-age-of-surveillance-capitalism-google-facebook 
https://www.groene.nl/artikel/de-mens-als-grondstof
