   
  Week 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                           	

glossary
HACKING

first definition to me: someone that hacks computer systems and gains information/data from it (Anonymous, is the first
one that comes to mind).

definition online:
'the gaining of unauthorized access to data in a system or computer.'
Hackers employ a variety of techniques for hacking, including:
Vulnerability scanner: checks computers on networks for known weaknesses
Password cracking: the process of recovering passwords from data stored or transmitted by computer systems
Packet sniffer: applications that capture data packets in order to view data and passwords in transit over networks
Spoofing attack: involves websites which falsify data by mimicking legitimate sites, and they are therefore treated as 
trusted sites by users or other programs
Root kit: represents a set of programs which work to subvert control of an operating system from legitimate operators
Trojan horse: serves as a back door in a computer system to allow an intruder to gain access to the system later
Viruses: self-replicating programs that spread by inserting copies of themselves into other executable code files or 
documents
Key loggers: tools designed to record every keystroke on the affected machine for later retrieval




phrases out of hacker manifestos:
''We make use of a service already existing without paying
for what could be dirt-cheap if it wasn't run by profiteering gluttons, and
you call us criminals.''

...

'' My crime is that of curiosity.''

...

''My crime is that of outsmarting you, something that you will never forgive me
for.''




class Joana & Shailoh

Inspection tool I chose: lighter
Purpose i chose it for: By burning fabric, u can smell and see which materials/fibers are used to create the fabric.
excercise:
The object is able to protect/to store something in, because of its hard material that is not- or barely- formable. Also
because attached to this hard part, there is a part to it that can be moved and has a structure on it for grip. It's not easy
to move by adding light pressure. This can suggest that there may eventually be danger or something can be broken or come out
of the object. It has a whole on top, which also gives the impression of something coming out or going in the tool.

The object tells the user that there is something to warn you about, because of its system how to lighten the fire. It seems
to be made for using it with your hands, this is suggested through its small siza/format and details. The object itself does
not have an expiration date, but the functionality of the tool does. Once the fuel is all used there's no purpose to the 
lighter anymore. It is not able to be functional by itself, it needs help

I mainly looked and felt the shapes, materials and therefore structures of the object and through this looked at
its functionality.
I asked myself a couple of questions like;
'what is its functionality by itself'
'can it be used for different purposes'
'has the tool itself different purposes or ways of using it'
etc.
It is a tool to reach for a something bigger (a bigger purpose).

*switching objects*

tool: tweezer
purpose the person chose it for: getting threads through the sewing and locking machines.
It's a long object, made out of hard material, namely metal. There's a small pin between the two long ' sticks?'.
Even though it's a hard object, you are still able to move it, mostly towards each other. The pin in between the two parts, 
does not have any influence in the movement of the object, because there is a hole in one metal pin that the pin can get into.
The object itself does not create anything but pressure, and release pressure (a typical loop)

overall reflection 'inspection' assignment (also includes Shailoh's inspection class in week 3):
it was unusual to look at an object/tool in this way and mostly to be staring at it for so long. It made me realize
how I am often not conscious of the form or way something is made or made out of to realize its function. Also in hacking,
I think this is a great way to get more'superficial' information of the object and try to not immediately recognise the
already known function, so I can be creative and look at the characteristics of the object/ tool to find a way to hack it. 


                                                            	Week 2
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                           	

first excercise Joana:

It was a series of movement excercises to connect with both your body, inner self and the bodies and souls around you.
We layed down on tables and got a kind of mindfoolness. It was really destressing and it made me conscious of the way my
body parts were connected as well as my body parts are connected to my soul, I felt the presence of the others in the
room. This was also the case in the second movement excercise, where we had to walk around the room and be inspired and
adjusted my body to the others. Movements became cohesive and it created a social energy.

second excercise Joana:

theme: non human <> non human programming
example: sound
explanation: There are all parts in the air that are vibrating when someone speaks or an object makes a 'sound', those parts
bump against each other, all the way to a human or another organism its anatomical hearing system, which then forms into 
the sound we hear. This is both a choreography created by the little parts in the air, as it is a choreography of for 
example lips moving together or two object clashing, which causes a reaction that gets interpreted as a sound.

theme: human <> human programming
example: menstruation cycle of a women and the birtcontrol pill
explanation: the menstration is a natural system and choreography of the female body. It's a repetitive cyclus that contains
out of the same step at approximately the same time over and over again. This system can be intervined by the (birthcontrol)
pill. Which breaks the loop of the cyclus and fools the body into an unnatural way of menstruating.

theme: natural agency
example: high and low tide
explanation: Choreography with water created by the moon.


third excercise Joana:

object we chose: corset
is made to reshape the body. If we would intervine the corset by adding volumes in the unusual places, it would hack the
purpose of the garment. We also asked ourselves what would happen to the object if we would cut it. The fuctional details of
the corset like the boning and the lace up with the string in the back could be used in a different way without using the 
fabric. It could be then used on or even in the body itself. Like inserting the lace up in the skin and pulling the skin 
itself together or using the boning to add a kind of spine in the body wherever you want. You can also use it that far that
the functionality of the boning gets used through the whole body which causes that the functionality of the body is almost 
removed since there would be no freedom in movement anymore.

reflection choreography excercises Joana:

I really liked those excercises. I don't think I ever had a better opening from a class than this time. The movement 
excercises were great to connect, relax, but also spark something in me to be excited for the next steps in class.
From the second excercise I like the birth control example we made. It is about how we trick our bodies but also about 
feminism and empowerment: a topic that is very dear to me. I do think that this is something that I am willing to continue 
with. The third excercise was refreshing, since it was more fashion related, and the idea that came up for hacking the 
corset was such a great achievement, because it changed something (a garment) that I am so used to seeing, to another 
context.


1st exercise Shailoh:

connective inquiry

object: buckle
The qualities are connecting. securing and dividing/loosening, tightening and making sound. Two seperate parts that can be 
clicked into one another and things can be attached to those two parts seperately. This makes two materials connected 
without actually touching eachother while connecting, because the plastic does the job. Connection can be undone between 
the two plastic parts but not between the plastic parts and the material/object whatsoever attached to it.

new context for this connector:
could be used as a seat belt fastener, since its connection and grip is quite strong and its not influencible by water for 
example, so it would be easy to unfasten if necessarily.

combined with another object: car charger, it would make a portable charger.


                                                         	week 3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

workshop hacking Joseph in the drawing station

introduction: some different interpretations on hacking 'hacking can be anything'. Watching the video Powers of Ten (1977).
Zooming in  and out on the human body, so seeing both the environment so also the outer edges of the universe as well as the
smallest part of a human body itself.
Joseph also showed us some examples of mind hacking as well as text hacking. Like
/I got a dig bick.
/you that read wrong.
It is changing something so small, but still impactful.
small exercise: Hacked the function of scissors, by using them as a tool to grab something and connecting it. Like picking 
up your charger with the scissors and putting it in your phone. This way, the function of the object becomes the absolute 
contradict: cutting, disconnecting into grabbing on to something and connecting.
exercise 2: body hacking, using enlarged pictures (A3 scans) of different bodyparts of myself and teammates, creating a new
different functioning body.


Varia

hacking lecture by Florian Cramer

the term hacking originally did not start with computers but was created by the Tech Model Railroad Club

examples given:
Yipl, blue box is linked to phone fraud
	\ Addy Hoffmann- steal this book
The yes men
white head hacker vs. black head hacker (possible grey head hacker..?)
[white head hacker: so called 'esthetic hacker', is a security specialist. it is a more respected and allowed form of 
hacking. They look for leaks in security systems and solve  or assist to come up with a solution to protect the information.}
[black head hacker: illegal, disrespected form of hacking. They break into a computer/system to destroy data or to make 
money out of it illegally. black head hackers are seen as criminals]
home taping is killing music (commercial 1980's) and The pirate bay using its icon.
Cornelia Sollfrank and her intervention at chaos computer club, also (co)founder of cyberfeminism
tentatively: guide dog
Franco& Eva Mattes ---- Nike Ground
Marcel Duchamp with the iconic hacked toilet, becoming art: urinoir

I found this lecture very interesting, but actually i would have liked this lecture to be at the beginning of the 
practice instead of in week 3. The lecture gave me a whole other view and new ideas about hacking. Especially the white 
and black head issue is a cool topic for me to think about, since i wonder if this is the real truth- that black head 
hackers are the criminals- or that there are also hackers in here that want to hack to change the way politics and 
capitalism rules society, or to for example raise awareness about this. The cyberfeminism topic was also something that 
grabbed my interest, cause like I said somewhere above this text in this read me file as well: i am interested in women 
empowerment/feminism. 


food hacking workshop

ingredient I brought: sugar

We first made a soup of all the ingredients that the whole class brought.
Then, we split up in two groups, where we made a recipe and the soup for the other team to taste.
i was in team tomato soup.
We changed some things about the classic recipe, like adding spices, corn and removing the cream from the recipe.
I think the most important step we took, was that we didn't necessarily so much hack the ingredients, but we more hacked 
the way to make the soup. While the paper we got had the ingredients and a step to step approach of how we had to make the 
soup on it, we decided to just throw everything in the pan, which makes it so much easier, more accesible and way faster.
https://www.smulweb.nl/recepten/1470313/The-fastest-tomato-soup-on-earth


                                                    	week 4
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I think hacking is changing the written and/or unwritten rules that are alive in a system. This can be in the body, in 
society, or the way we think of objects and use them. Everything as small and as great can be a hack, that is why i also 
struggle with giving a specific definition of hacking. It can be to take away or add something that brings a new perspective
or context of the object/environment or people that are the system you intervene in. But itcan also be very technical like 
the classic well known computer hackers.

My group and I focussed on the body itself and the purpose of life (=death)
To conclude that we wanted to find a way to hack death, or actually find a way human data can overcome death. We did a lot 
of research on e theme and actual progresses about it. We found out different methods and theories that would support and 
help accomplishing this 'goal'. I would say our tools would be data, research and social media (in our case facebook) as a 
platform. We wrote a manifesto about the methods and system we like to hack (to be read down here). Unfortunately we 
misunderstood the assignment a bit, we thought we had to write a new manifesto, but we after the presentation (when we found
out we missed something) decided to make something more visual and tried to intervene to make up for it a bit. We hacked a
Facebook account by putting in the data of a deceased person and letting the thoughts of this person, still controll the 
page. The data will be uploaded when the person concerned passes away. With data we recall the memories, characteristics, 
opinions and social relationships of a person. The data decides what the person is going to comment or post on for exemple
news flashes, posts of others etc. We hacked both the purpose of Facebook as well as the natural way/circle of life and
death.



Manifesto
can temporary life become permanent?

Scientists predicts that by the year 2050, humans could outlive the contraints of the physical body. Genetic engineering 
could be used to extend the body’s life expectancy, by reducing or reversing the ageing of cells. Advances could also 
lead to android bodies for humans to live in after their own flesh and blood frames have ceased to function. And virtual 
reality worlds could be created for people to upload their consciousness into once their bodies have failed.

Could there be a hack for the way people are living and dying, it there a way to escape what all people are made for? 
being born to die later. What if we can put our brains or our souls into other devices that will let us ‘live’ on this 
planet forever. Would the humanrace change from flesh and blood to robotic body’s or virtual reality games. Will baby’s no
longer be born from the womb of a human female, but be ‘born’ in a lab where there was no need for a ‘basic’ reproduction.

What if we die, but we actually don’t die but we get uploaded to the biggest cloud ever made recreating the Biblelic
‘heaven’ where we can live forever and ever.

MAN IS NOT A MACHINE
Although man most certainly processes information, he does not necessarily process it in the way computers do. Computers 
and men are not species of the same genus. No other organism, and certainly no computer, can be made to confront genuine 
human problems in human terms.

Artificial intelligence isdescribed as ‘the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally 
requiring human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, and translation between 
languages.’

Nowadays artificial intelligence would be mostly connected with computer engineering and executed in building robots, with
‘human capabilities’ like the above called perception and recognition. However, what if the system of death can be hacked 
by replacing the actual human brain into a robot, for example in the form of the data of a human that will be redirected
to this mechanic. While the soul of a person can not be maintained, the human thinking can then be preserved through death.

On facebook there are over 800 million users, and 27.000 users per day will die and their page will live forward. Some dead
people still appear to be alive because you get notifications for their birthdays, or see a message on their timeline from
someone else.

Contact with friends or family becomes more digital and we see each other less in person. It won’t be that noticeable if 
that person passes away at home all alone, because we don’t catch up with them every week and won’t miss them.

But what if it would be real? In people who pass away can upload their soul or consciousness online, and can live forward as 
an online avatar to still communicate with the ‘alive’ friends and family?

When we die, our spirits get transferred on to a database. The spirit will continue to live forever, in a virtual world. 
By purchasing the ‘The Sims Expension pack: Afterlife’ you will be able to transform yourself into a virtual character, 
or multiple.

In here, you can build a house, a family, basically everything you could in your past life, and even more. You can choose 
to be male, female, or invent a new kind of gender. It is basically a limitless game, where your spirit can live his or 
her afterlife for the rest of eternity, in happiness and serenity. You can live everywhere you want, you can visit family 
members and friends that have passed, if they also have purchased the game.

Many costumers say that this virtual world is better than life on earth. No diseases, inconveniences, sadness and most of
all: no death.
It’s like hacking all negative things of the real world and entering real ‘heaven’.




Facebook account is attached in an email that has been sent to you from our group. '

Thank you Joana & Shailoh for the information you provided and your enthusiasm in the classes!
