1.select a list of keywords/ glossary about what Hacking is/ can be 
(tip: re-read the manifesto);

hacking is:

intervening: coming into a system
changing: actively changing things within this system
recurring: a lot of trail and error
distorting: it can make things vague or had to read
blocking: it can take away acces to systems




write down a reflection paragraph on the observational tool exercises 
(tip: you can link to images/ drawings);


clay cutting thread:

It can cut clay, it’s sturdy but very flexible, 
it has two wooden handles to grip the threat comfortably.

I can break it, 
but make it whole again,
repair the wood. 

Replace the threat, pull it, 
cut myself with it, saw something by movie 

Cut slice pull hold 

Tactile: soft wood, cold metal, 
sturdy thread visual, looks light, 
feels light audiovisable: makes a rapsing 
sound when the thread is rubbed together,
wood makes a light tick sound when its being dropped.


External Hard Drive

Store data
Give light
Give warmth
You need a cable to acces to see the information 

It vibrates because of the fan inside to cool it down

it can talk in code language 

family: Usb sd card hard drive cloud




grow the keywords/ glossary about what Hacking 
(tip: add your own references);

Chopping wood
making changes
freeing: it can give acces to systems
opening: creating entrance to differnt systems
forbidden: illegal when done for the wrong reasons
lucrative: legal when there is consent from a company
encrypted: very hard to read
Coded.
messy.



gather documentation on the two sessions with Shailoh and Joana;

missed these classes unfortunately

write a summary on the Hacking lecture by Florian Cramer;

menstruation decive
ubuweb.com
Captain Crunch
Nike logo Vienna

hacking is so much broader than just virtual hacking and data processing.
intervening into the normal system works and 



write a summary on the exercise you developed at Varia;

Cooking with a group considerately for another group. It's interesting to see how one 
system as simple as a recipe can be approached from a different angle and gets changed because of this approach. 
If we would take (as designers & artists) the given, standard approaches as our base for our work, nothing new 
or interesting would come out of it. It was nice to see how this was visualised with the cooking of all ingredients
and with the considerate cooking lesson. 



revise all the topics above and reflect on the possible meaning of 'Hacking' 
(Respond to the questions: What is the context in which you operated?
What phygical systems did you investigate? 
What did you find? What is your hacking method? 
If your method is a tool set, how would you explain to someone else how to use it? 
In what way are these tools limited/biased?);

for ours assignment we started with looking at a system that we all know and have daily contact with: the weather.  
We wanted to link this to smells or emotions but it became all to complicated to create or make so we took a 
different direction. We took our inspiration from the cooking class at varia and how we, as a group, could hack 
a recipe. 

We came up with the big multi-use colourful recipe interpretation still-life cooking kit. 
its a toolkit that is filled with tools and instructions for you to interpret a recipe. The end goal of the toolkit is 
to make a sculptural like artwork that is inspired by your associations with ingredients. We want people to use objects 
or materials that you have laying around.

we think this is hacking because:
it changes the normal recipe to an unique outcome
people have to think differently about the way they wanna prepare it 
and present it and you need to find out what works and what not for you.
