"I was fascinated with the phone system and how it worked; I became a hacker to get better control over the phone company." 
-Kevin Mitnick
Hacking: to chop/cut

Hacking: the gaining of unauthorized access to data in a system or computer

Exploit: a software tool designed to take advantage of a flaw in a computer system, 
typically for malicious purposes such as installing malware.

Choreography: the art or practice of designing choreographic sequences.

[OBSERVATIONAL TOOL EXERCISE]
In class we were asked to bring a tool we use for some form of observation. 
We then had to look at the object from various perspectives as well
as feel the object in our hands with eyes closed and then describe it’s properties as well as possible uses.
I brought a ruler. 
I think the point of the excercise was to convey the “hacker mindset” of never looking at anything at face value. 
We had to understand the nature of the object and it’s relation to other objects as a way of realizing
how the chosen object interacts and influences other systems and can be used for changing these systems. 


[17.04.19 Joana’s class]

We started by doing some breathing/ mindfullness type exercises.
I found the idea of doing this exercise quite symilar to the inspection tool excersise 
except in this case the system we were exploring and analizing was our own bodies 
(becoming more aware of how each limb and muscle is connected to each other)
as well as some movement/choreography excersises dealing with movement and personal space.
The interesting result was everyone eventually starting to circle the room moving in the same direction like a school of fish. 
I’m pretty sure this was a way to both maintain the same speed and distance from one another
because as soon as we were encoureged to move around more freely, the structure started to break down. 
After this we met up with our groups to discuss a text piece about choreography and the broader d
efinititons of the word in everyday life. 
Choreography doesn’t just apply to dance as it can be used to describe
any series of actions that are set in a determined order to produce a result. 
As such, choreography is also very descriptive of any given system, 
making it a relevant term for hackers of any kind as hacking often
involves analyzing and changing the choreography of something. 
We were also required to analize and write a new set of instructions for an object we had brought from home,
again emphasizing how important observation is to the process of hacking and finding other,
unintended uses for said object. 

[17.04.19 Shailoh’s class]

This class focused on us working with our teams to analize some connectors and, once again, 
discover alternate uses and combinations with these objects. 
By this point in the course the 
“analize object/system, come up with an alternate/unintended use for it” loop had been fully established
as the primary hacking method. 

[18.04.19 Joseph’s class]

We showed up at the drawing station with 11 A3 images of (pereferrably our own) human body and a fruit. 
After a short lecture once again explaining the concepts of hacking 
(this time with a notable presence of humor to all the given examples, eg the low budget terminator 2 video). 
Side note: I did really enjoy how over the course of this programme the tutors really worked to show
how hacking is just a method and how everyone uses hacking as a tool connected to some other interest they have. 
The fruits were there to make smoothies at the end. 
Not much to say about that except that I really had not anticipated 
the amount of food ingrident-based exercises in the course as a whole. 
The rest of the class partially focused on finding creative ways to 
hack the human body using the printouts as well as splitting in pairs and attempting to do some on-the-fly hacks. 
Not sure how well it went but it was really fun and made me understand that
the line between hacking and vandalism can often be blurred. It was fun though. 

[24.04.19 Workshop at Varia]

Once again food items are heavily featured in the exercise. 
The workshop opened with a really great leacture by Florian Cramer. 
The lecture started by once again opening the question “what IS hacking?” to the class. 
Not complaining, but I will note that that is how every single class in this practice has started. 

I found the lecture more informative and historically fascinating than giving me more insight into the process itself.
As a history lesson on hacking though, it was riveting. 
While I was familiar with some of the subject matter (Captain Crunch, phone hacking and the blue box),
a lot of the hacker zine and early hacker culture was all new to me and made for a very entertaining lecture. 
Again: might not have contributed to my understanding of hacking much, but still interesting and filled with fun anecdotes. 
After the lecture we participated in a pot luck style of “food hacking” 
which amounted to every single ingredient anyone had brought being thrown into a pot and boiled. 
The result was something only a few brave souls attempted to taste. 
The rest of us got enough of an idea from the smell and opted to not try the concotion ourselves. 
The final exercise of the day involved us splitting into two groups to “adapt” a soup recipe and change it
around based on the leftover ingredients we brought, then writing down the recipe and posting it online. 
While I think this exercise sounds fun in theory, 
in practice it was the dictionary definition of the phrase “Too many cooks spoil the broth” 
as trying to make a soup with that many people inolved was problematic. 

[Reflection]
